# Liquidity
Estimating An Upper Bound on Illiquidity Premium

The motivation behind this notebook came from thinking about the following areas of study: portfolio implementation (sizing, liability analysis, cash mgmt, tracking error), illiquidity premium (risk vs edge), and building out both existing models and potentially exploring new frameworks as well.

For the past year, these concepts have been something I have devoted a lot of time to try to better understand. I thought these issues would become increasingly relevant, given the prevalence over the past decade of essentially volatility suppression, low-cost passive beta vehicles, the increasing popularity of risk parity and carry strategies, combined with regulations causing a lack of willingness and ability for traditional dealers to provide liquidity.

I recently found a paper by Francis Longstaff (see ref. below) on how illiquidity premium can be thought of as the spread between perfect foresight and a frictionless market (liquid) versus complete lack of control caused either by highly illiquid markets and/or a formal trading restriction such as restricted stock or a lockout period before which no redemptions or transactions are allowed.

The paper shows that this dynamic can be thought of like the spread between a lookback option with a floating strike, the latter of which would represent the illiquid asset while the former would be like a continuously monitored lookback option in which the buyer has the right to cherry pick the most profitable point looking back in time with perfect knowledge. Since perfect foresight is an unrealistic assumption, this model can be treated as an "upper bound" on the illiquidity premium between two otherwise fungible (or highly similar) assets. I have shown this below and then expanded upon the idea using Monte Carlo simulation tools in the hopes that this might have wider and more realistic practical use.

This could be expanded to generate other processes (ie: SDEs / normally distributed prices, IR models, realized/implied volatility models; or derive elsewhere for use as inputs to this notebook, especially volatility).

I think it might also be interesting to explore some of the a) market-microstructure b) factor modeling and c) portfolio hedging, allocation, and implementation tools that I have developed over the past year. All of this could potentially be integrated into a separate program (upstream) to deeply analyze and get more realistic inputs for this notebook, such as volatility and factor loadings and also a portfolio hedge cost analysis program (downstream) to create a better picture of implementation costs, execution/impact cost vs adverse selection risk tradeoff, and where opportunities might lie either across different markets or within the curve and micro vs macro time considerations.  Once armed with a better understanding of liquidity risk (or opportunities), which I suspect might often get overlooked, then the goal here is to look for ways to expand upon this analysis in other areas.
